Delaney Engel
From the Locker Room to the Barracks to the Brain- An Inside Perspective on the Life of a Midshipman Student Athlete 


A Midshipman at the United States Naval Academy adopts the values of Honor, Courage and Commitment when dressed in their Parade Blues jacket. 


Uniforms possess a different meaning to every person who wears one. To Gabriel ‘Gabe’ Craven a uniform represents an earned accomplishment. Craven has earned many uniforms throughout his life. Even though the Midshipman and athlete has received praise throughout his career, he never expected to endure internal struggles. As he finishes his first of a nine year commitment with the Navy, Craven begins to question his abilities and purpose. Despite the rigid front, even the most confident can put forth a facade.
[a]


Craven started playing hockey at a young age and wore various jerseys. From there, Craven developed a strong love for lacrosse when he was only in second grade.  


“Just like all the other kids, my parents wanted me to try every sport, and I gave lacrosse a shot,” Craven explained. “I started getting pretty good, and I was still very young at the time… I basically fell in love with the game.” 


Growing up in Monroe Township, New Jersey and after many years of playing lacrosse both recreationally and competitively on various academy and club teams, the Under Armour All American third ranked goalie in the country knew the sport was his passion and would be a path he would continue to pursue for the long term.  Missing bio/nut graf info[b]


“Gabe is one of the best goalies I have ever shared the field with,” Quentin Pellegrino, Craven’s teammate from the 2019 Under Armour Underclass All-American Tournament expressed.


Before even playing a single minute of a high school lacrosse game, Craven committed to the United States Naval Academy to pursue both his athletic and academic career as a Midshipman at only 15 years old, he shared. 


“I really just fell in love with Navy because of the challenges and opportunities it presented,” Craven explained. “I talked to a lot of different schools, and it just seemed like the right fit.”


The new Navy recruit was excited and optimistic for his future ahead of him as a student athlete at one of the most prestigious academies in the country. 


Craven thoroughly explained the rigorous Naval Academy lifestyle as his days are filled with structure, discipline and endless hours of hard work and dedication. 


Aside from a full day of challenging academic courses such as chemistry, physics and thermodynamics, the Midshipman has to participate in parades, which include live trades, lineups and mandatory lectures he must attend while still managing a heavy schedule as being an athlete as well, Craven shared. 


Although the workload at the academy may seem only a physical challenge, the highly regimented, stern atmosphere has established internal struggles for Craven, especially on the lacrosse field, an environment he had always thrived in, Craven revealed.


“It's really hard,” Craven said. “This year I did not play well... I didn't even get to dress for most games...It was really stressful for me. Not playing, and not being able to go to games was a situation I've never been in before, and I didn't expect to be in and I wasn't prepared to be in. It really, really hurt and it was a real struggle, mentally and physically.” [c]


Despite all the physical and mental hardships Craven endured throughout his freshman year, including a global pandemic, he had to continue to keep his brave face and conceal his true inner feelings behind his various uniforms,[d] hiding his internal thoughts and emotions from many. 


Craven shared that one of the hardest days of the 2021 lacrosse season was the game against Army, a highly publicized and traditionalized event that created an intense atmosphere for all, ultimately leading Craven to question if Navy truly was the right place for him. 


“There is a lot of hype around the game,” Craven said. “When we beat them it was really fun, and awesome. It is beautiful seeing the seniors demotion but, you know, I was angry because I didn't get to play.”


In Annapolis, on April 24, the event of the Army vs. Navy game filled the Navy–Marine Corps Memorial Stadium with parent spectators, alumni, staff, and students. 


The rivalry between the two schools and the historical significance behind it presented a day full of emotions for all, but especially for Craven, who observed from the sidelines, never experiencing a sense of defeat like he had that day ever before.


“I was embarrassed, actually, because there's 5000 people there and a lot of my classmates were there and I didn't even get to dress. It's a small school so people kind of know who you are and especially in sports,” Craven shared. “This is such an alpha school, everybody cares about sports, so when you come in with a lot of expectations and you don't quite live up to them it’s embarrassing and I was really upset.” 


Ian Franzoni, Craven’s teammate from The Hun School of Princeton, sympathizes with Craven as the football player explained that he had endured hardships as well throughout his freshman year at Brown University. 


“When you’re used to playing so much, sometimes you may take it for granted,” Franzoni explained. “When it gets taken away from you, it is like a shot to the heart.”
Franzoni uniquely understands Craven’s perspective and can connect to him and the immense pressure prestigious universities, both Navy and Brown, can project onto their students, especially athletes.


“I love Gabe,” his friend shared. “He’s just an awesome kid and always has a ton of positive energy so seeing him struggle this year has been tough.”[e]


Wendy Craven, Gabe’s mother, explained how she has encouraged her son to have a new and refreshed outlook on this new chapter of his life, which has presented him more of a challenge than he intended it to. 


“When you get to college, things change because you no longer have parents, teachers, coaches, a whole bunch of adults being your cheerleaders and validating you and your successes,” Craven’s mom addressed. “When you get to college, you're on your own and the motivation has to come from internal validation...It just has to come from within.” 


Mirroring the words of his wife, Craven’s father Scott had similar advice for his son and the challenges he has encountered. 


“Everything has to be about yourself, motivating yourself about creating your own schedule and your own path, and that's that that's the biggest thing, even at the highly disciplined military,” Craven’s father guided. “You have to motivate yourself.” 


The Midshipman unveiled how being at the Naval Academy has been a significant internal struggle and shift from his previous preliminary childhood and high school athletic life where he was always the star of the game, always saving the day. 


Craven disclosed that it has been a personal struggle to reshape his mindset, and essentially redefine what his uniforms meant to him for the new chapter of his life, but assured that he will continue to motivate himself and always recognize his own hard work and self-worth at the end of the day. 


“Everyone always thinks things as a prestigious student athlete is all rainbows...I think the more important thing is to kind of focus on the day to day here.” 
  





























Sources:
Gabe Craven- 732-666-1357
Wendy Craven- 732-516-8900
Scott Craven- 732-310-6986
Quentin Pellegrino- 732-832-9949
Ian Franzoni- 609-902-3581




CW:  I want to stand up and cheer.


This is so far more well rounded and offers the reader an EXPERIENCE, which is what good stories should do.  This is a window into the struggles of a unique world, an exclusive world, but with similar difficulties any college freshman can face.


This piece is not without holes, and you could have dug deeper on any number of topics, including his daily routine, academic  work and social life. 


More voices, such as coaches (high school or current) and academy peers would have given us more insight into this world.   There isn’t a lot of SHOW here, which could tell us more about him or what his life looks like.


Overall the structure is sound, though I would have introduced life at the academy higher than the NJ upbringing.


But the writing and reporting here are quite good.  I was deeply impressed with the flow of this piece and how you connected the uniform theme throughout.


I did feel this young person’s struggle. I did feel how his parents and friends view those, but still believe in him.


This is a much improved piece than your draft.  


The standard of this assignment is to produce journalism that can be published with light editing and little to no additional reporting.


You achieved that with this assignment.  Congratulations. 


I know this semester has challenged and frustrated you at times, but it was a pleasure to watch your work progress and to see you grasp these concepts so well.


I hope to hear from you and your girl in the future as you two go on to great success.  Feel free to reach out if ever you have a need. 


Learn to channel your nosy instincts to asking better questions; if you do, you can tell better stories.
[a]Yes!!!!  Finally.  A nut graf that explains what this is about!!!
[b]How old is he? What does he want to be in the Navy or beyond?
[c]This is soooo telling.  This gets inside is his mind and offers a window into challenges -- what we all face.
This makes this STORY worthwhile.
It shows that even the most gifted, and selected, face adversity
[d]This is a smart line that connects to the lede and creates a theme. 
But I want to know why he felt the need to conceal.
[e]This brings more to the table and offers a sense of support and love and kinship, BEYOND his parents.